# ethereum_basics

Background information on seed phrases, address, private keys, and self custody for beginners.

## WARNING

**DO NOT** use or send funds to any of the seed phrases or addresses listed in this document. These are listed here for example purposes only and any funds sent here could be stolen at any time.

# TERMINOLOGY

### Seed Phrase / Mnemonic Phrase

An **ordered** sequence of 12 or 24 words that is used to generate your ADDRESS and its corresponding PRIVATE KEY. It is important to note that a single SEED PRHASE can generate an unlimited number of ADDRESSES. Below is an example of a 12 word SEED PHRASE:
```
tumble bless jelly fat brother attitude garment distance royal slam walk cute
```
It is **imperative** that your SEED PHRASE be kept secure and private. It is your master key. **DO NOT** lose it or you will be unable to recover the PRIVATE KEY to your ADDRESS, and any funds stored on that ADDRESS will be lost forever. **DO NOT** give your SEED PHRASE to anyone. If someone gains access to your SEED PHRASE, they can steal any funds protected by that SEED PHRASE. If anyone ever asks for your SEED PHRASE, they are trying to steal from you. Remeber, when you write down your SEED PHRASE, the **order** of the words in the sequence must be recorded as well.

### Ethereum Address

To interact with or store funds on the Ethereum blockchain, you must have an Ethereum ADDRESS. An ADDRESS is a sequence of 40 characters, often prefixed by a `0x`. The following is an example of an Ethereum ADDRESS:
```
0xcb7f2d491548bb8c86e76b831c34320e506542de
```
Note: the ADDRESS above is actually the first ADDRESS generated by the SEED PHRASE in the preceeding example. If you want someone to send you funds, you must give them your ADDRESS. In order to send funds from your ADDRESS, you must create a TRANSACTION, sign it with your PRIVATE KEY, and submit that TRANSACTION to the network. This sounds complicated but in practice it's as simple as clicking a few buttons on your WALLET software. You might think of an ADDRESS like a safety deposit box that allows anyone to send funds to it, but only people with the PRIVATE KEY to this ADDRESS can take funds out of it.

Note that there are two types of Ethereum ADDRESSES:

1. Externally Owned Accounts (EOAs)
2. Smart Contract Accounts

EOAs are ADDRESSES that are managed by a corresponding PRIVATE KEY that some human controls. The account introduced above is an example of an EOA. Smart contract accounts on the other hand are ADDRESSES that do not have a corresponding PRIVATE KEY and are instead controlled by the logic of a SMART CONTRACT (more on that later).

### Private Key

In order to sign a TRANSACTION on behalf of an ADDRESS, you must have access to the PRIVATE KEY for that ADDRESS. A PRIVATE key is a sequence of 64 characters often prefixed by a `0x`. Below is an example of the PRIVATE KEY for the Ethereum ADDRESS in the preceeding example:
```
0xc8ff65396abbebea258848b6178f17d4298c0a4b1e22cdf06f77b6dd2d87babb
```
In practice, you will rarely use PRIVATE KEYS directly. Instead, your WALLET software will use your SEED PHRASE to calculate your PRIVATE KEY and store it internally. The same rules that apply to securing a SEED PHRASE apply to securing a PRIVATE KEY. Never give out your PRIVATE KEY and if anyone asks for it, they are trying to steal from you. If your PRIVATE KEYS are generated from a SEED PHRASE then you don't need to backup your PRIVATE KEYS, you only need to backup your SEED PHRASE as it can always be used at any time to recover your PRIVATE KEYS.

### Transaction

To move funds around on the Ethereum network (or more generally to *change* anything on the Ethereum network) you must submit an Ethereum TRANSACTION. Because Etheruem supports SMART CONTRACT functionality, Ethereum TRANSACTIONS can do far more than just move funds from one ADDRESS to another. They can lauch new SMART CONTRACTS, they can create NFTs, they can trade assets, etc. Ethereum TRANSACTIONS must be **initiated** from an externally owned account, (meaning they can not be initiated by a SMART CONTRACT). But a single TRANSACTION which starts from an EOA can interact with multiple SMART CONTRACTS before it is finished.

### Wallet

A WALLET is a piece of software that humans use to manage one or more ADDRESSES and PRIVATE KEYS and send TRANSACTIONS. There are many kinds of WALLETS: browser wallets like [metamask](https://metamask.io/) for interacting with dApps in your web browser, mobile wallets like [trust wallet](https://trustwallet.com/) that work on your phone, hardware wallets like [ledger](https://www.ledger.com/) that provide extra security because the PRIVATE KEYS never leave the device, and smart contract wallets like [gnosis safe](https://gnosis-safe.io/) that implement multi-signature schemes for additional security. You often see people confuse the term WALLET and ADDRESS. They are not the same. When someone says "send funds to my WALLET" they actually mean "send funds to the ADDRESS managed by my WALLET".

### Smart Contract

This is simmply a program which lives on the Ethereum network at a particular ADDRESS. This simple idea has enormous consequences because for the first time in history, programs can have ownership over assets. Like any program, a SMART CONTRACT will only ever do what it was programmed to do. Rule of thumb, only use SMART CONTRACTS where the code is open source, audited, and battle tested for a long period of time. Contracts that aren't thoroughly vetted [can and do get hacked](https://rekt.news/leaderboard/) often.
